So React Native actually comes
with its own animated API.
So you can import this from React Native,
and there are loads of examples on the
React Native Doc's on how you can use it.
For this course, we're actually going
to use reanimated and in particular,
we're going to use reanimated 2.
So just to give you a little bit
of history on reanimated, so
originally reanimated was created
to address some performance
deficiencies on React Native
built in animated library.
In particular was around operating on the
UI thread, versus the main thread, etc.
And the reanimated one basically
copied exactly the API that
React Native's animated API was using.
Higher Reanimated 2,
even though it's still in beta,
it kind of sidestep that completely.
And the API for Reanimated 2 is really
nice to use, especially for React hooks.
So the reason I'm using Reanimate two is
because I genuinely think it's the nicest
use animation library for React Native.
And that's what we are going to be using
for all of our animations in the future.
It's a lot less code than
the animated API, and
also the animated API is declarative.
Which is a little bit hard to read and
also reason about when you're new to
animations, so
first let's install reanimated too.
So at the time of ricing,
this is the latest version.
And because we're still in beta, I've also
tagged the actual latest version that I'm
going to be using just to make sure
that we're all on the same page.
In the future this is going
to not be in visa and
you might have a different version.
So we're all on the same version
of the package let's install this
particular version so let's copy it and
paste it to our terminal.
So for Reanimated we also need to add
a babel plugin, so this is very important.
So if you open your Babel configures and
then copy this line of code,
so Babel config will be at the root
directory of your project, and
then we need to add the Reanimated
plugin to our plugins list.
So if you're working on
an existing project,
you might already have some plugins here.
In this case, it's super important that
this plugin is the very last thing on
the array, otherwise you're gonna.
To enable this on Android we
to do a couple of extra steps,
just a little bit of native code.
So firstly, we need to turn on the Hermes
engine which is disabled by default.
Hermes is React Native or
Facebook's proprietary JavaScript runtime,
which is optimized for mobile app.
So basically, they are building
their own JavaScript runtime,
which should help your React Native apps.
Load faster, and kind of genuinely getting
up more optimized for running JavaScript.
On the mobile device because obviously
JavaScript is generally meant for
the web which has different restrictions
and different performance needs.
So if we go to Android app build gradle.
So Android app, whoops, build gradle, and
here we got enable Hermes false.
We will turn this to true,
and then for Android,
we also need to add some code
to main application dot Java.
So we copy these two imports and
then we go to app source main
Java main application that Java.
And then we add these imports
actually remove the comments because,
they are not valid in Java land.
And we need to add this override method,
so
the whole method, and
we will paste it in here.
Just underneath the get JS module name and
also just comment excellent that's
just to rebuild the Android app as well.
And then when system called for
IOS you want
to go to the IOS directory
I run pod install.
And after that's done we're
also going to rebuild our app.
So young IOS to rebuild so
just to tell you a little bit
about how Reanimated 2 works,
so the best place to start
is the API documentation.
So we look at API reference, and hooks, so
these are kind of
the hooks that you can use.
So Reanimated 2 is completely hooks based,
so
this fits perfectly in how we already
think about data and things moving around.
Whereas the animated API not so much, so
the data that you'll be using most
frequently is use animated style.
So this is basically a hook that
allows you to create a style,
which you can then use in
an animated component.
And in his hook, you can use animated
values where you can animate any of these
styles from one value to the next,
which is what we going to do.
Another central component
is a use shared value.
So this is a value that you can animate,
and then use within your animated style,
this will be especially handy later
on when we're doing gestures.
We're basically we're setting the position
of the view that we're looking at in
a shared value, and
then animating that view, correspondingly.
Then used to write value,
this is basically what you use if you
have values that you want to calculate.
So if you want to do a calculation
in a shared value so
here we have a shared value which
might change and then you want to like
multiply this for example something
that's outside of animators.
Like welds, like the state value,
then you can use the derived value here.
And then bunch of these are like if
you want to use the on scroll event on
a scroll view within your animation,
there's a built-in scroll handler.
And there's also a gesture handler
that works great with React Native
gesture handler.
There's other ways props and
we'd address animated reactions.
And you can explore
these on your own time.
So yeah, we're going to look
at useAnimatedStyle and
useAnimatedGestureHandler later on.
So when it comes to animations
you have these helper functions,
with timing with spring with with decay,
with sequence with repeat.
And as you'll see later this is these
are what we're going to basically
using to animate a value
from one muted index.
And now the last thing so we haven't had
to do this before, but because we added
something to our Babel config,
we also need to restart the Metro Bundler.
So in your tab wherever you have, wherever
you run yarn, start at the very beginning,
just close it and
redo it just to restart the Metro Bundler.
All right,
now we should be able to use Reanimated.